README.md, before:

# Crowd Analyzer
Crowd Analyzer is a Python application designed to analyze pedestrian and crowd mobility patterns using computer vision and machine learning techniques. It incorporates YOLO for object detection, Kalman filters for tracking, and various methods for density and speed estimation. 

The application also utilizes [PedPy](https://github.com/PedestrianDynamics/pedpy) to process pedestrian trajectories and [LlamaVision 90B](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.2-90B-Vision) via the [Groq API](https://console.groq.com/keys) for real-time interpretation of PedPy output plots.

## Features

- Object detection using YOLO
- Kalman filter-based tracking
- Density and speed estimation using Voronoi and classic methods
- Interactive point selection for homography transformation
- Graphical user interface (GUI) using PyQt6
- Visualization of trajectories, density, and speed plots using PedPy
- Real-time plot interpretation using LlamaVision AI

## Demo

### Videos

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f16b6d99-86cd-4219-965c-ade446fe8611

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/72dcb9f9-ba1b-4049-8e87-342af9215d5c


### Screenshots


*Main application interface*
![Main GUI Interface](img/GUI.png)

*Settings configuration panel*
![Settings Window](img/GUI_setting.png)

*Video processing and tracking visualization*
![Processing View](img/GUI-2.png)


*Density, Speed and trajectory analysis plots using Pedpy and LllamaVision*
![Analysis Results](img/Plot_window.png)



## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/crowd-analyzer.git
    cd crowd-analyzer
    ```

2. Create a virtual environment and activate it:
    ```sh
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
    ```

3. Install the required dependencies:
    ```sh
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

4. Set up the environment variables:
    - Create a `.env` file in the project root directory.
    - Add your Groq API key to the `.env` file:
        ```
        GROQ_API_KEY=your_groq_api_key
        ```

## Usage

1. Run the application:
    ```sh
    python CrowdAnalyzer.py
    ```

2. Load a video file using the "Load Video" button.

3. Configure settings using the "Settings" button.

4. Start processing the video using the "Start Processing" button.

5. View the results and plots after processing is complete.

## File Structure

- `CrowdAnalyzer.py`: Main application file containing the GUI and core functionality.
- `Tracker.py`: Contains the tracking and density estimation logic.
- `requirements.txt`: Lists the required Python packages.
- `.env`: Environment variables file for storing sensitive information like API keys.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request for any improvements or bug fixes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Implement intersection analysis with YOLO tracking, zone definition, and interaction analysis for pedestrians and vehicles

README.md, after:

# Crowd Analyzer
![Crowd Analyzer Logo](img/logo2.png)

Crowd Analyzer is a Python application designed to analyze pedestrian and crowd mobility patterns using computer vision and machine learning techniques. It incorporates YOLO for object detection, Kalman filters for tracking, and various methods for density and speed estimation. 

The application also utilizes [PedPy](https://github.com/PedestrianDynamics/pedpy) to process pedestrian trajectories and [LlamaVision 90B](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.2-90B-Vision) via the [Groq API](https://console.groq.com/keys) for real-time interpretation of PedPy output plots.

## 🎉 What's New (April 2025)

We've released a major update with enhanced pedestrian and vehicle tracking capabilities:

- **Advanced Intersection Analysis**: Define custom zones (crosswalks, intersections, sidewalks) for targeted analytics
- **Enhanced Visualization**: Improved tracking visualization with trajectory mapping and speed indicators
- **Vehicle-Pedestrian Interaction**: Detection and analysis of interactions between pedestrians and vehicles
- **Coordinate Transformation**: Advanced homography-based coordinate system calibration
- **Expanded Export Features**: Save separate trajectory data for pedestrians and vehicles
- **Custom Zone Analysis**: Monitor and analyze movement within user-defined zones

This functionality is available in the new `tracker_pedv.py` module. See the updated screenshots below for examples of the new visualization capabilities.

## Features

- Object detection using YOLO
- Kalman filter-based tracking
- Advanced pedestrian and vehicle tracking with trajectory analysis (NEW)
- Zone-based movement analysis for intersections and crosswalks (NEW)
- Vehicle-pedestrian interaction detection and analysis (NEW)
- Density and speed estimation using Voronoi and classic methods
- Interactive point selection for homography transformation
- Graphical user interface (GUI) using PyQt6
- Visualization of trajectories, density, and speed plots using PedPy
- Real-time plot interpretation using LlamaVision AI

## Demo

### Videos

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f16b6d99-86cd-4219-965c-ade446fe8611

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/72dcb9f9-ba1b-4049-8e87-342af9215d5c


### Screenshots


*Enhanced pedestrian tracking visualization with PedV (NEW)*
![PedV Tracking](img/pedvtracking.png)

*Advanced analysis interface with zone definition (NEW)*
![Analysis GUI](img/analysisGUI.png)

*Main application interface*
![Main GUI Interface](img/GUI.png)

*Settings configuration panel*
![Settings Window](img/GUI_setting.png)

*Video processing and tracking visualization*
![Processing View](img/GUI-2.png)

*Density, Speed and trajectory analysis plots using Pedpy and LllamaVision*
![Analysis Results](img/Plot_window.png)



## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/crowd-analyzer.git
    cd crowd-analyzer
    ```

2. Create a virtual environment and activate it:
    ```sh
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
    ```

3. Install the required dependencies:
    ```sh
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

4. Set up the environment variables:
    - Create a `.env` file in the project root directory.
    - Add your Groq API key to the `.env` file:
        ```
        GROQ_API_KEY=your_groq_api_key
        ```

## Usage

1. Run the application:
    ```sh
    python CrowdAnalyzer.py
    ```

2. Load a video file using the "Load Video" button.

3. Configure settings using the "Settings" button.

4. Start processing the video using the "Start Processing" button.

5. View the results and plots after processing is complete.

## File Structure

- `CrowdAnalyzer.py`: Main application file containing the GUI and core functionality.
- `tracker_ped.py`: Contains the basic tracking and density estimation logic.
- `tracker_pedv.py`: NEW - Enhanced tracker with intersection analysis, zone definition, and vehicle-pedestrian interaction detection.
- `requirements.txt`: Lists the required Python packages.
- `.env`: Environment variables file for storing sensitive information like API keys.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request for any improvements or bug fixes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
